## 4 Financial institutions must do more to support transition and green innovation

More funding needs to be directed toward green initiatives by the financial services sector. While current financing may be sufficient to satisfy current demand in some parts of the world, total funding requirements for the global transition will rise significantly. Financial institutions have a role to play in promoting demand and facilitating the supply of green money through new green finance products. Working with governments and regulators, they can identify policy and regulatory changes needed to enable financial product and service innovation, simply guidelines, harmonized standards, and track green money flows to ensure that transition needs are being met worldwide.

Reallocating capital to low-emission, resilient infrastructure is equally urgent. The financial sector needs to do more to integrate climate impact into investment decisions and to incentivize transparency and disclosure in financial markets. The green bond market is by far the most developed example of financial service innovation in transition. Worldwide, green bonds worth a recent USD299.8 billion were issued in 2020, and new issues worth USD406.4 billion are predicted to be issued in 2021. China is currently the world’s second-largest green bond market after the United States, with its share of global green bonds exceeding those in the UK in the first quarter of 2021. The Association of British Insurers (ABI) recently announced its Climate Change Roadmap for the insurance and long-term savings industry. The roadmap sets a goal for making USD900 (USD1.2) of investment available to businesses looking to meet net zero targets by 2030. This would amount to USD60 (USD50) per year and could contribute up to a third of the UK’s total finance requirement for reaching its national net zero target.

## 5 Businesses’ net zero commitments can be a catalyst for change

Businesses are under increased pressure to develop their own net zero strategies and to demonstrate that their investment decisions, as well as their products and services, are both carbon-efficient and likely to help deliver sustainable goals. As organizations make their commitment, and ideally accelerate plans in place already, they will stimulate demand for green energy, transport and manufacturing capabilities. Investing in emerging green technologies may be one way in which they can both demonstrate commitment to reducing their own emissions and also enable recent technologies to scale. They should also consider how they can green financing, such as sustainability-linked bonds, to fund at least part of their transition plans.

Businesses should think about how to stimulate demand by prioritizing the development of sustainable products and services that offer an affordable alternative to current ones. EY research has shown consumers are keen to choose green, but still remain a significant barrier. Companies may also need to partner with financial institutions to help their customers transition to green products and services. Consumers will require new financial products that support the shifting economy, where payments are based on usage rather than owning a product. Household will also need support to take on the initial costs of greening, such as retrofitting a house with more sustainable insulation and replacing fossil fuel heating systems.
