Getting support staff to also key in the data’s continuing improvement. Addressing the challenge of data linkage specifically, Kathy Brown’s said: “We are doing more to communicate to users in some instances, they might not be able to see a report or why it’s matched incorrectly (i.e., confusing information in different case management systems) that is not the fault of One View directly. At a high level, this is to try and lift staff understanding of the process and to maintain trust/understanding in the system.”

Clear feedback mechanism: It is important to the project team that improvements to One View are driven by frontline staff feedback. Gill Gallagher described how this works in practice: “Frontline staff give us some real-world context about what’s going on for them and how the results they’re seeing might be affecting their service delivery. We are able to take that information and then adapt One View to meet that need.” “This may involve moving back into the individual services to address data quality issues or improve things from the point of data entry,” said Brown. “We are also looking at how we can do a big push for staff to report it, so we can look at it in the background and address.”

For example, staff feedback has led to increased frequency of data collection. As described in the Key challenges section, data is extracted at different frequencies and is out of date. Data information used to be extracted monthly, but LBBU have increased the frequency of these extracts to weekly basis to improve data feedback. “We are speaking to staff to identify the priority datasets and to work with us to increase their frequency and mitigate the impact of ‘time on data presented,’” said Kathy Brown.

Information governance (IG): For the service delivery team, it’s been very reassuring to know that there is robust IG. Gill White describes her confidence in the bank’s IG compliance: “The view has got a very, very good structure to it that embeds the data protection Act, the EEA’s General Data Protection Regulation, and all the other relevant legislation. It’s very well structured and it’s very well documented. The formal process around data governance, but also the formal process around IG and the governance structure with the board and everything. It all feeds into the management board. It’s very good. It’s very strong.”
