Further,the lex- We evaluate SBERTon this dataset in two sce- ical gap larger. A draw 58.02 10-fold cross-validation. 46.35 68.03 how well approachesgeneralize to differenttop STS 74.92 ics.HcevlatTnoss 77.03 SBERT using 79.23 84.30±0.76 AVS 84.67±0.19 84.92±0.34 SBERT is fine-tuned using the Regression Ob- 85.64±0.81 jeciveFuntionhilatyoreiscomu 84.45±0.43 85.02±0.76 usingcosinesimilaritybasedonthe sentencem- SBERT-STSb setup. BERT-STSb-large 88.33±0.19 85.35±0.17 84.79±0.38 thatPearson correlation has some serious draw- 86.15±0.35 Tral backs and should be avoided forcomparingSTS Table2:Evaluation on theSTSbenchmark test set systems.The results are depicted inTable3. SBERTwasprerainedon thLIdatasetsth Training SBERTinthe10-foldcross-validation setupgives We use the training setto netune SBERTus a performance that is nearly on-parwithBERT. fine-tunedonthe STSbdatas. Howevrntssicvlaon tiontimewe compute thecosine-similarity be All systems are To be considered trainedwith10randomseedstocountervariances similarrguentouldadrestesa tween the sentence embeddings. points Spearman corelation. BERT is able to use atention tocompare directlybothsentences We ex- The results are depicted in Table 2. and provide the same reasoning. Only training on topictoavectorspace suchthat argumentswith This two-step This is a similar claims and reasons are close muchmorechallenging taskwhichappearse quiremorethanjustwotopicsforrainingtowork manceby3intsWedootobrveaigi cant difference betweenBERT and RoBERTa on-par with BERT. Wikipedia SectionsDistinction Dor et al. (2018) use Wikipedia to create a the- We evaluate SBERT on the Argument Facet Sim Argument Facet Similarity maticalle-grained taindevandtt or ilarity (AFS）corpus by Misra et al(2016）.The Wikipedia arti- cles are separated into disinct sections focusing pairsfrom socialmediadialogsonthreeconto 4.4 sentence embeddings methods. versial tigcnolgyrigen Dor et al. assume that sen- from 0 (different topic）o5(completely equiv on certain aspects. .The similarity notion in the AFS corpus STS datasets from SemEval.STS data is usually alent").
