Table 4:Evaluation on the Wikipedia section triplets dataset Dor et al.,2018）. SBERT trained with triplet loss for one epoch.

Table 3:Average Pearson correlation r and average Spearman’srank correlation p on the Argument Facet Similarity (AFS） corpus Misraetal,2016）.Misra et al.proposes 10-fold cros-validation.We additionally evaluateina cross-topic scenario:Methods are traned on two topicsand are evaluated on the third topic. tences in the same section are thematically closer than sentencesin different sections.They use this to create a large dataset of weakly labeled sen- tence triplets: The anchor and the positive exam- ple come from the same section,while the neg ative example comes from a different section of the same article.For example, from the Alice Amold arficle:Anchor:Arnold joined the BBC RadioDrama Company in 1988.positive:Arnold gained media attention in May 2012.,negative: Balding and Arnold arekeen amateur golfers. We use the dataset from Dor et al. We use the Triplet Objective,train SBERT for one epoch on the about 1.8Million training triplets and evaluate iton the222.957test triplets.Test triplets are from adistinct setofWikipedia articles.As evaluation metric,we use accuracy:Is the positive example closer to the anchor than the negative example? Results arepreented inTable4.Doret al tuned a BiLSTM architecture with triplet loss to derive sentence embeddings for this dataset,As the table shows,SBERT clearly outperforms the BiLSTM approachby Dor et al.

# 5Evaluation-SentEval

SentEval (Conneau and Kiela,2018) is a popular toolkit to evaluate the quality of sentence embed- dings. Sentence embeddings are used as features for a logistic regression classifier. The logistic re gression classifier is trained on various tasks in a 10-fold cross-validation setup and the prediction accuracy is computed for the test-fold.
