Model Avg GloVeembeddings Avg.fast-textembeddings Avg.BERTembeddings 77.25 BERTCLS-vecor 78.30 77.96 InferSent-GloVe 91.17 79.23 Universal Sentence Encoder 78.66 91.68 87.85 78.68 SBERT-NLI-base 86.25 80.18 87.81 94.37 SBERT-NLI-large 81.57 84.85 94.21 83.0 88.66 82.15 86.54 TaleEvationfSBERTsentncembeddingsusingtheSentEvaltkitSentEvalevaluatsentnce 72.87 83.6 84.40 92.50 83.6489.43 88.23 85.19 74.49 81.52 mbeddndiflafonsbyngistcrisng 92.8 93.98 90.38 84.8890.07 84.13 82.42 69.45 86.70 84.18 91.4 94.39 84.94 86.38 71.13 88.2 94.52 84.66 93.2 75.77 88.96 90.33 85.59 70.14 90.66 89.6 85.10 Itappears that the sentence cmbeddings from 76.00 87.4 87.41 SBERT capture well sentiment information: We 87.69 observe large improvements forallsentiment tasks MR,CRandSST）fromSentEvalincomparison to InferSent andUniversal Sentence Encoder. The only dataset where SBERTis significantly ferent aspects of SBERTin order to get a better worse than Universal Sentence Encoder is the understanding of their relative importance. TREC dataset. Universal Sentence Encoder was We pre-rainedonquestion-answeringdatawhichap- evaluated different pooling strategies (MEAN,MAX,and CLS）.For the classification pearstobebeneficial forthequestion-typeclassi objectivefunctionweevaluate differentconcat- fication task of the TREC dataset. nation methods.For cach possible configuration, Average BERT embeddings or using the CLS- we trainSBERTwith 10different random seeds token output from a BERTnetwork achieved bad and average the performances. resultsforvarious STS tasks（Table 1).worse than The objective function (classification vs.regres- average GloVe embeddings. However,for Sent- sion) depends on the annotated dataset. For the Eval,average BERT embeddings and the BERT classification objective function,we train SBERT- CLS-token output achieves decent results (Ta- base on the SNLI and the Multi-NLI dataset.For ble 5).outperforming average GloVe embeddings. the regression objective function,we train on the The reason for this are the different setups.For training setof the STSbenchmark dataset.Perfor- the STS tasks, we used cosine-similarity to es- mances aremeasured on the development split of timate the similarities between sentence embed the STS benchmark dataset. Results are shown in dings.Cosine-similarity treats all dimensions Table6. equallyasfgist sion classifier to the sentence embeddings. This allows that certain dimensions can have higher or PoolingStrategy lowerimpactontheclassificationresul. NLISTSb MEAN MAX CLS-token output from BERTreturn sentence em- 80.78 CLS 87.44 beddings thatareinfeasibletobeusedwithcosine- 79.07 (u,U) 79.80 sinilarity orwithManhatten/Euclideandistance. 69.92 86.62 For transfer leaning,they yield slighly worse (a-n) 66.04 (1u-ulu0) results than InferSent or Universal Sentence En- 69.78 (u,0,u=u) coder.Howeverusing he desribed fine-tning 70.54 (u,v,|u-ul） 78.37 setup with a siamese network structure on NLI （u，0，u-u]，u▪u) 77.44 Table 6: SBERT trained on NLI data with the clas datasets yields sentence embeddings that achieve 80.78 sifcation objective function,on the STS benchmark 80.44 anewstate-of-the-artforthe SentEval toolkit. (STSb） with the regression objective function. Con- figurationsareealuatedonthe development setof the 6Ablation Study STSbusing cosine-similarityandSpearmanrankcor Wehavedemonstratedstrongempiricalresultsfor relationoonnatnodwnl the quality of SBERT sentence embeddings.In scores with MEAN pooling strategy. When trained with the classification objective function nNLI datathepooling trategyhasa nation mode is much larger. InferSent (Conneau
