et al.,2017）and Universal Sentence Encoder(Cer etal.,2018）bothuse（u,|u-，u*v）asnput fora sofmaxlassiferHowevernourarchi ture,adding the elementwise u decreased the performance. Themost important component is the clement- wise difference u-ul.Note, that the concate- nation mode is only relevant for training the soft- max classir.Atnferencewhen redicting sm ilarities for the STSbenchmark dataset,only the sentence embeddings u and are used in combi- nation with cosine-similarity.The element-wise difference measures the distance between the di- mensionsof thewo sentence embeddingsensur- ingthatsimilarpairsarecloseranddissimilarpairs are further apart. When trained with the regression objective function,we observe that the pooling strategy has a large impact.There,the MAX strategy perform significantlyworse than MEAN orCLS-token strat- gy.This is im contrast to(Conneau et al.,2017), who found itbeneficial for the BiLSTM-layer of InferSent to use MAxinstead of MEANpooling

# 7Computational Efficiency

Sentence embeddings need potentially be com- puted for Millions of sentences,hence,a high computation speed is desired.In this section,we compare SBERT to average GloVe embeddings, InferSent (Conneau et al.,2017),and Universal Sentence Encoder (Ceret al.,2018). For our comparison we use the sentences from the STS benchmark (Cer et al.,2017).We com- pute average GloVe embeddings using a sim- ple for-loop with python dictionary lookups and NumPy.InferSentis based on PyTorch. For Universal Sentence Encoder,we use the Tensor- Flow Hub version,which is based on Tensor- Flow.SBERTis based on PyTorch.For improved computation of sentence embeddings,we imple- mented a smart batching strategy:Sentences with similar lengths are grouped together and are only padded to the longest element in a mini-batch. This drastically reduces computational overhead from padding tokens. Performances were measured on a server with Intel i7-5820K CPU @ 3.30GHz,Nvidia Tesla https://github.com/facebookresearch/ InferSent

are depicted in Table7.

Table7:Computation speed（sentences per second)of sentence embeddingmethods.Higherisbetter.

On CPU,InferSent is about 65% faster than SBERT. This is duc to the much simpler net- work architecture.InferSent uses a single Bi- LSTM layer,while BERT uses 12 stacked trans former layers. However,an advantage of trans- former networks is the computational efficiency on GPUs.There,SBERT with smart batching is about 9% faster than InferSent and about 55% faster than Universal Sentence Encoder. Smart batching achieves a speed-upof 89% on CPU and 48%on GPU.Average GloVe embeddings is obvi- ouslyby alargemargin thefastestmethod tocom- pute sentence embeddings.

# 8Conclusion

We showed that BERT out-of-the-boxmaps sen- tences to a vector space that is rather unsuit- ableto be usedwith common similarity measures like cosine-similarity.The performance for seven STS taskswas below the performance of average GloVe embeddings. To overcome this shortcoming,we presented Sentence-BERT (SBERT).SBERT fine-tunes BERT in a siamese/triplet network architec- ture.We evaluated the quality on various com- mon benchmarks,where it could achieve a sig nificant improvement over state-of-the-art sen- tence embeddingsmethods.Replacing BERT with RoBERTa didnotyield a significantimprovement in our experiments. SBERT is computationally efficient. On a GPU it is about9%faster than InferSent and about55% faster than Universal Sentence Encoder. SBERT can be used for tasks which are computationally not feasible to be modeled with BERT.For exam- ple,clusteringof10000 sentenceswith hierarchi- cal clusteringrequires withBERT about 65 hours, as around 50Million sentence combinationsmust be computed. With SBERT,we were able to re- duce the effort to about 5 seconds.
