Sec. 10.7 Cohomology of Groups 871

the form $f_{\alpha} \beta^{-1} \gamma$ for $\alpha \in F$ and $\beta \in R$. These results hold for $S$. Eisenberg, S. Mac Lane, Hyf. H. Frandsen, and B. Eckmann to create cohomology of groups.

In what follows, we will write Hom$_{\mathbb{Z}}$ instead of Hom$_{\mathbb{Z}}$ and $\otimes_{\mathbb{Z}}$ instead of $\otimes_{\mathbb{Z}}$. Because of the special role of the trivial $\mathbb{Z}$-module $\mathbb{Z}$, the augmentation

$$
\varepsilon: \mathbb{Z}G \to \mathbb{Z}
$$

defined by

$$
\varepsilon \left( \sum_{g \in G} m_g g \right) = \sum_{g \in G} m_g
$$

is important. Recall that we have seen, in Exercise 8.37 on page 573, that $\varepsilon$ is a surjective ring homomorphism, and so is its kernel, $\mathbb{Z}G$, a two-sided ideal in $\mathbb{Z}G$, called the augmentation ideal. Thus, there is an exact sequence

$$
0 \to \mathbb{Z}G \xrightarrow{\varepsilon} \mathbb{Z} \to 0.
$$

Proposition 10.10. Let $G$ be a group with augmentation ideal $\mathcal{I}$. As an abelian group, $\mathcal{I}$ is free abelian with basis $G - 1 = \{x - 1 : x \in G, x \ne 1\}$.

Proof. An element $u = \sum_{g \in G} m_g g \in \mathbb{Z}G$ lies in ker $\varepsilon$ if and only if $\sum_{g \in G} m_g = 0$. Therefore, if $u \in \mathcal{I}$, then

$$
u = \sum_{x \in G} m_x (x - 1).
$$

Thus, $\mathcal{I}$ is generated by the nonzero $x - 1$ for $x \in G$.

Suppose that $\sum_{x \in G} m_x (x - 1) = 0$. Then $\sum_{x \in G} m_x (x - 1) = 0$ in $\mathbb{Z}G$, which, as an abelian group, is free abelian with basis the elements of $G$. Hence, $m_x = 0$ for all $x \in G$. Therefore, the nonzero $x - 1$ comprise a basis of $\mathcal{I}$. $\blacksquare$

Proposition 10.10a. If $A$ is a $\mathbb{Z}G$-module, then

$$
H_0(G, A) = \mathbb{Z} \otimes_{\mathbb{Z}G} A.
$$

Proof. By definition, $H_0(G, A) = \mathrm{Tor}_0^{\mathbb{Z}G}(\mathbb{Z}, A) = \mathbb{Z} \otimes_{\mathbb{Z}G} A$. Applying the right exact functor $\otimes_{\mathbb{Z}G} A$ to the exact sequence

$$
0 \to \mathbb{Z}G \xrightarrow{\varepsilon} \mathbb{Z} \to 0
$$

gives exactness of the first row of the following commutative diagram:

$$
\begin{array}{c}
\mathbb{Z}G \otimes_{\mathbb{Z}G} A \longrightarrow \mathbb{Z} \otimes_{\mathbb{Z}G} A \longrightarrow 0 \\
\downarrow \varepsilon \otimes 1_A \quad \downarrow 1_{\mathbb{Z}} \otimes 1_A \\
\mathbb{Z}G \otimes_{\mathbb{Z}G} A \longrightarrow \mathbb{Z} \otimes_{\mathbb{Z}G} A \longrightarrow 0
\end{array}
$$

The two solid vertical arrows are given by $a \otimes a \mapsto a$. By Proposition 8.93, there is an isomorphism $\mathbb{Z} \otimes_{\mathbb{Z}G} A \cong \mathbb{Z} \otimes_{\mathbb{Z}G} A$. $\blacksquare$
