BERT set new state-of-the-art performance on various sentence classification and sentence-pair regression tasks. BERT uses a cross-encoder: Two sentences are passed to the transformer network and the target value is predicted. However, this setup is unsuitable for various pair regression tasks due to too many possible combinations. Finding in a collection of n = 10 000 sentences the pair with the highest similarity requires with BERT nn-1)/2=49995000 inference computations On a modern V100 GPU. this requires about 65 hours. Similar. finding which of the over 40 mil lion existent questions of Quora is the most similar for a new question could be modeled as a pair-wise comparison with BERT,however,answering a sin- gle query would require over 50 hours.

A common method to address clustering and se mantic search is to map each sentence to a vec- tor space such that semantically similar sentences are close. Researchers have started to input indi- vidual sentences into BERT and to derive fixed- size sentence embeddings.The most commonly used approach is to average the BERT output layer (known as BERT embeddings) or by using the out put of the first token (the [CLS] token. As we will show, this common practice yields rather bad sentence embeddings, often worse than averaging GloVe embeddings (Pennington et al.2014).

To alleviate this issue. we developed SBERT The siamese network architecture enables that fixed-sized vectors for input sentences can be de- rived. Using a similarity measure like cosine- similarity or Manhatten /Euclidean distance, se- mantically similar sentences can be found. These similarity measures can be performed extremely efficient on modern hardware, allowing SBERT to be used for semantic similarity search as well as for clustering. The complexity for finding the
