The most important component is the element wise difference u-v|Note,that the concate nation mode is only relevant for training the soft max classifier. At inference,when predicting sim ilarities for the STS benchmark dataset. only the sentence embeddings u and  are used in combi nation with cosine-similarity. The element-wise difference measures the distance between the di mensions of the two sentence embeddings, ensur ing that similar pairs are closer and dissimilar pairs are further apart.

When trained with the regression objective function. we observe that the pooling strategy has a large impact.There, the MAX strategy perform significantly worse than MEAN or CLS-token strat- egy.This is in contrast to Conneau et al.2017 who found it beneficial for the BiLSTM-layer of InferSent to use MAx instead of MEAN pooling

On CPU,InferSent is about 65% faster than SBERT.This is duc to the much simplcr net work architecture. InferSent uses a single Bi- LSTM layer, while BERT uses 12 stacked trans- former layers. However, an advantage of trans- former networks is the computational efficiency on GPUs. There, SBERT with smart batching is about 9% faster than InferSent and about 55% faster than Universal Sentence Encoder.Smart batching achieves a speed-up of 89% on CPU and 48% on GPU.Average GloVe embeddings is obvi- ously by a large margin the fastest method to com- pute sentence embeddings.

Sentence embeddings need potentially be com puted for Millions of sentences, hence, a high computation speed is desired. In this section, we compare SBERT to average GloVe embeddings, InferSent Conneau et al.,2017)and Universal Sentence Encoder (Cer et al.,2018)

For our comparison we use the sentences from the STS benchmark Cer et al..2017.We com pute average GloVe embeddings using a sim- ple for-loop with python dictionary lookups and NumPyInferSent is based on PyTorch.For Universal Sentence Encoder, we use the Tensor Flow Hub version. which is based on Tensor Flow. SBERT is based on PyTorch. For improved computation of sentence embeddings, we imple mented a smart batching strategy:Sentences with similar lengths are grouped together and are only padded to the Jongest element in a mini-batch This drastically reduces computational overhead rom padding tokens.

We showed that BERT out-of-the-box maps sen tences to a vector space that is rather unsuit able to be used with common similarity measures like cosine-similarity.The performance for seven STS tasks was below the performance of average GloVe embeddings.

To overcome this shortcoming, we presented Sentence-BERT SBERT). SBERT fine-tunes BERT in a siamese / triplet network architec- ture. We evaluated the quality on various com mon benchmarks, where it could achieve a sig- nificant improvement over state-of-the-art sen- tence embeddings methods. Replacing BERT with RoBERTa did not yield a significant improvement in our experiments.

SBERT is computationally efficient. On a GPU, it is about 9% faster than InferSent and about 55% faster than Universal Sentence Encoder. SBERT can be used for tasks which are computationally not feasible to be modeled with BERT.For exam- ple,clustering of 10,O00 sentences with hierarchi- cal clustering requires with BERT about 65 hours, as around 50 Million sentence combinations must be computed. With SBERT. we were able to re- duce the effort to about 5 seconds
